Steps :
Virtual Machine Setup:

    Choose a virtualization software and download the latest version.
    Download a desired Linux ISO image.
    Create a new VM according to your resource availability and the provided Dockerfile requirements.
    Allocate an appropriate amount of RAM, CPU cores, and disk space.
    Configure network settings as necessary (bridged mode recommended).
    Boot the VM with the Linux ISO image.

Linux Installation:

    Follow the on-screen instructions to install Linux on the VM.
    Select the appropriate language, keyboard layout, and time zone.
    Choose manual partitioning and create two partitions:
        Primary partition for the root filesystem (ext4 format).
        Extended partition for swap space (swap format).
    Configure swap space for hibernation and virtual memory management.
    Set a strong password for the root user.
    Update the package lists and upgrade the system:
    Bash

    sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade 

Docker Installation:

    Download the Docker installation package or script for your specific Linux distribution.
    Follow the installation instructions, which usually involve granting root privileges and restarting services:
    Bash

    sudo sh Docker-install.sh
    sudo systemctl start docker
    sudo systemctl enable docker

Verify Docker installation:
Bash

docker version

Dockerfile Configuration:

    If you were provided with a Dockerfile, review its contents to understand the specific steps involved in building your image.
    Common Dockerfile instructions include:
        FROM: Specifies the base image to inherit from.
        RUN: Executes commands to install software, copy files, etc.
        WORKDIR: Sets the working directory for subsequent commands.
        CMD or ENTRYPOINT: Sets the default command to run within the image.
    If required, modify the Dockerfile to suit your specific requirements.

Image Building:

    Navigate to the directory containing the Dockerfile in your VM.
    Build the image using the docker build command, specifying the build context directory and a tag:
    Bash

    docker build -t <your_username>/<image_name> .


    Replace <your_username> with your Docker Hub username and <image_name> with a desired name.
    The build process may take some time depending on the size and complexity of the Dockerfile.

Image Pushing:

    Log in to your Docker Hub account using the CLI:
    Bash

    docker login



Enter your Docker Hub username and password when prompted.
Push the built image to your Docker Hub repository:
Bash

docker push <your_username>/<image_name

        It may take several minutes for the image to be uploaded to Docker Hub.

    Verification and Troubleshooting:
        Visit your Docker Hub repository to confirm the uploaded image.
        If you encounter issues, consult the Docker documentation or online forums for assistance.
        Common troubleshooting steps include:
            Verifying Docker installation and configuration.
            Checking network connectivity and firewall rules.
            Examining Docker build logs for error messages.

